Q1. Explain the following with an example:

1. Artificial Intelligence - Artificial intelligence is a field, which combines computer science and robust datasets, to enable problem-solving. It also encompasses sub-fields of machine learning and deep learning, which are frequently mentioned in conjunction with artificial intelligence. Artificial intelligence (AI) is the intelligence of machines or software, as opposed to the intelligence of human beings or animals.

2. Machine Learning - Machine learning is a branch of artificial intelligence (AI) and computer science which focuses on the use of data and algorithms to imitate the way that humans learn, gradually improving its accuracy.It which focuses on using statistical techniques to build intelligent computer systems to learn from available databases.
eg .  Image recognition , Medical diagnosis , Facial recognition

3. Deep Learning - Deep learning is a machine learning technique that teaches computers to do what comes naturally to humans: learn by example. Deep learning is a key technology behind driverless cars, enabling them to recognize a stop sign, or to distinguish a pedestrian from a lamppost. Deep learning simulates our brain, helping systems learn to identify objects and perform complex tasks with increasing accuracy without human intervention.

Q2- What is supervised learning? List some examples of supervised learning.
ANS - Supervised learning uses a training set to teach models to yield the desired output. This training dataset includes inputs and correct outputs, which allow the model to learn over time. The algorithm measures its accuracy through the loss function, adjusting until the error has been sufficiently minimized. Supervised learning is a type of machine learning in which a computer algorithm learns to make predictions or decisions based on labeled data. Labeled data is made up of previously known input variables (also known as features) and output variables (also known as labels).
eg. Email Filtering , Voice Recognition 

Q3 - What is unsupervised learning? List some examples of unsupervised learning.

Ans - Unsupervised learning, also known as unsupervised machine learning, uses machine learning algorithms to analyze and cluster unlabeled datasets. These algorithms discover hidden patterns or data groupings without the need for human intervention.
eg. Recommendation Engines , Anomaly detection

Q4- What is the difference between AI, ML, DL, and DS?

AL - Artificial Intelligence is a branch of computer science. It involves building smart machines capable of performing tasks that need human intelligence.
ML - Machine Learning is the subsection of artificial intelligence and is based on the usage of algorithms and data. Machine learning requires complex math and a lot of coding to achieve the desired results.
DL - Deep learning is a subfield of artificial intelligence. It uses a multi-layered structure of algorithms called a neural network. DL algorithms also need data to learn and solve problems. We can also call it a subfield of machine learning. 
DS - Data science is a discipline that uses various technologies and methods to analyze data. It is the conjunction of computational science, statistics, mathematics, and knowledge of the company or business.The main goal of data science is to find patterns in data. It uses various statistical techniques to analyze and extract information from the data. Through these valuable insights, data scientists can help companies make smarter business decisions.

Q5- What are the main differences between supervised, unsupervised, and semi-supervised learning?
Ans- Supervised learning is a problem with labeled data, expecting to develop predictive capability. 
Unsupervised learning is discovering process, diving into unlabeled data to capture hidden information. 
Semi-supervised learning is a blend of supervised and unsupervised learning.

Q6- What is train, test and validation split? Explain the importance of each term.
Ans - Training data is the set of the data on which the actual training takes place. Validation split helps to improve the model performance by fine-tuning the model after each epoch. The test set informs us about the final accuracy of the model after completing the training phase.

Q7- How can unsupervised learning be used in anomaly detection?
ANs - Anomaly detection techniques of unsupervised nature assume that normal data points occur considerably more frequently than anomalous data points. This assumption is used to classify data points that occur less frequently as anomalies. Unsupervised techniques assign each data point a score instead of a label

Q8- List down some commonly used supervised learning algorithms and unsupervised learning algorithms.
Ans - The most commonly used Supervised Learning algorithms are decision tree, logistic regression, linear regression, support vector machine. The most commonly used Unsupervised Learning algorithms are k-means clustering, hierarchical clustering, and apriori algorithm